okay next is the startup and the
shutdown I think we've already talked
about this when you first power up your
engine the engines will stay silent with
no sound if you want to start it up so
that all the lights and the smoke and
everything and sound all function you'll
need to press number three and that
basically activates all the features on
the engine so it's ready to use if you
want to silence the engine and turn off
all the lights and smoke and everything
you can press 6 to shut down engine
sound number four number four button
what that allows you to do is you can
print with a single button press you can
basically turn all of the engine sounds
on the engine on or off if you do if you
do use the engine sound off button you
actually can still play the bell and the
whistle all right number seven is the
headlight that allows you to turn the
headlight on and off
proto caste that we talked about earlier
this allows you to when you depress this
proto caste this now with and you will
see that there's a seed displayed on the
on the upper right side of the remote
this is now listening through the proto
caste port on the TI you for any sound
or music or whatever if we had an mp3
player hooked up to it you'd be hearing
music playing press it again to turn it
off
PFA this is the passenger freight
announcements in the videos below this
set you will see how this passenger
freight announcements work next is the
read button what this end what this
button basically allows you to do is it
just actually does two things
one is that if you've got an let's just
go back up here and check what engines
we have we have the lash up and this
SantaFe listed as active if say for
instance we've powered layout down and
we've changed all our engines around and
we want to now control a whole different
set of engines and we want to bring them
all up to the current active set we can
easily do that by hitting the read
button and when you press the read
button the remote sends a command to the
ti you to check all the engines that are
on the track so what it does is it now
basically when you go to the engine list
it now lists all the engines that are on
the layout and you can now easily select
them and control
the other purpose that the read button
serves is whenever you hit it it also
resends the watchdog signal so that for
it for instance if you have engines on
your layout already running and you
don't want to power everything down and
you want to add a new engine to the
layout you can basically power a siding
down with a switch and then just before
you power up the siding you can press
that read button power on the siding and
it will resend the watchdog signal from
the TI you to tell the engine to make
sure it stays put and to remind it that
it's about to get commands from the
remote the Doppler effect this is for
this is an enhanced feature for the
whistle sound effect to basically
duplicate the Doppler effect from the
horn of the whistle and finally the last
button here is the emergency stop this
button here is used that if you're
running running TI you in normal mode
where you have power going from the
input to the output
if you press emergency stop this
basically cuts immediately all power
from from the input ports in the TI you
to the output force it basically
completely powers down the TI you this
is this is basically a an emergency
feature that if you've got got an
impending disaster you know you've got a
derailment you've got about to have a
collision you compress this emergency
stop if you're running in normal mode
and it'll immediately power down all of
the all the tracks and all the engines
that are that are running through the TI
you now if you're running the TI you in
passive mode like I was explaining
before where it's basically an unlimited
mode this feature does not essentially
does not work because it can't cut it
can't cut the input power because the
power supply is actually direct
connected to the track for that reason
well that reason in others what I
actually choose to use is a wireless
outlet remote and what basically what
this remote allows me to do if this
thing the focus here there we go it
basically allows me to cut the cut the
power to my wall outlet on and off with
this with this toggle switch and I can
basically anywhere and anywhere in the
yard I can turn the power to my layout
on and off so this is a great little
safety feature to have on you at all
times and I also have a section in the
garden railroads modification page that
has pictures this and where you can get
it how much it cost and also an example
of another one that we've also tried
that works good okay I think that pretty
much does it for the overview I
appreciate your watching and hope you've
enjoyed and hope you've gotten some
benefit out of this overview